well obviously worm infections are quite
important in pets and we see two
particular types of worms one of which
is round worms which look a bit like
earthworms the other one is tapeworms
now round worms in particular why
they're important is that actually in
docs for instance the little eggs can go
into the soil and unfortunately if say
we're grooming every you know striking
our dogs and not washing your hands
afterwards or we get some soil on our
hands that's infected we can actually
pick up the worms and when they hatch
out a little larvae can sort of go
through our body and then it can end up
in our eye or something absolutely
disgusting like that now what do I
always advise people to do is obviously
you have to be hygiene wash your hands
after you played with your pair the
important bit is worming your pets now
for round worms and tapeworms there are
different preparations that you use for
those and that's why again you have to
know a bit about the life cycle of the
worm itself so that you know which
treatment to use the other one that's
particularly important is tapeworms for
the tape I was actually integrally
linked with the the flea and say if a
flea actually gets infested with a bit
of the tapeworm the cat or dog eats the
flea when they're grooming and then they
get tapeworms so it's a whole sort of
look at the whole lifecycle of these
particular animals I think what's
important is you consider the science
you work out what treatment you want to
use you have to consider the lifecycle
of that animal how it can affect the
pets for instance with rabbits please
are linked as well with myxomatosis
which can be prevented by a vaccination
so you've got a whole sort of mishmash
of things that you have to understand
and when you see a thing that could have
been prevented by an owner taking some
action not only is the owner distraught
but quite often the better surgeon
the whole team very upset as well